# micropics

Repository that is for the classification and counting of cyanobacteria.
Under development.

Files:

countCells.py
A file that combines functions from several other files and actually (eventually) counts the cells. The process is:

- take input image, turn it into patches (patchRGB.py functions)
- use trained GAN to do style transfer on the patches
- Process ground truth to get the cell markings validation_steps
- reassemble the patches and count the cells.

cycleGANKeras.py
A file for training a cycleGAN neural network model.

drawSomething.py

drawSomething2.py

drawTrichome.py
A Tkinter app that will allow you to set a grey background, draw a black trichome outline and add white spots to represent cells (intended to create a mock-up that will produce a realistic synthetic micrograph)

generatePictures.py

generatePictures_split.py

patchRGB.py
Some functions for taking a folder full of images and creating a folder full of image patches (also has a function to turn the patches back into an image).

pix2pixKeras.py
For training a pix2pix neural network. Requires a dataset with related images (i.e. labelled/annotated and unlabelled images)

pix2pixKeras_generateFromModelFile.py
For taking a model (or series of models) generated by pix2pixKeras.py and running them over a dataset of images to get the translated images out.

processImages.py
A CNN classifier (or series of CNN model architectures) and some image processing functions aimed at classifying micrographs as "before" and "after" treatment. Used in the development of the paper "Detection of morphological changes caused by chemical stress in the cyanobacterium Planktothrix agardhii using convolutional neural networks" by Ismael Carloto et al.

redDots.py
A file for processing micrographs where the cells in the images have been annotated with red dots (a specific colour of red defined in the file)

removeBlankPatches.py
Once a labelled dataset has been turned into patches using patchRGB.py, some of the patches do not contain cells. This script finds those patches and removes both the labelled patch and the corresponding unlabelled patch (assuming the folder structure is suitable)
